README.md, before:

# Bürokratt's Service Module

Bürokratt's Service Module is a tool to help primarily product owners in collaboration with customer support agents/service managers to create, edit and otherwise manipulate Bürokratt's e-services via a graphical user interface. This includes setting up Ruuter- and Rasa-based user stories, making X-road / REST / database requests where and when appropriate and so forth.

Service Module focuses on the part of creation of any service where Bürokratt users can define service endpoints (i.e API or X-Road) whereas Training Module focuses on Rasa's side.

# Scope

This repo will primarily contain:

1. Architectural and other documentation;
2. Docker Compose file to set up and run Bürokratt's Service Module as a fully functional service;
3. Tests specific to Bürokratt's Service Module.

## Dev setup

- Make sure that env variable REACT_APP_LOCAL is set to true(default).

- Clone [Ruuter](https://github.com/buerokratt/Ruuter)

- Ruuter has an unresolved issue with allowing cross-origin credentials to be sent, for now fix this by adding: .allowCredentials(true); to line 24 in CORSConfiguration.java

- Navigate to Ruuter and build the image `docker build -t ruuter .`

- Clone [Resql](https://github.com/buerokratt/Resql)

- Navigate to Resql and build the image `docker build -t resql .`

- Clone [Data Mapper](https://github.com/buerokratt/DataMapper)

- Navigate to Data Mapper and build the image `docker build -t datamapper-node .`

- Clone [SiGA](https://github.com/open-eid/SiGa)

- Set java version to 11

- Navigate to SiGA & run `./mvnw clean install`

- Navigate to SiGA & run `./mvnw spring-boot:build-image -pl siga-webapp`

- Copy docker folder from SiGA directory & paste it into current repo directory.

- Clone [SiGA Demo](https://github.com/open-eid/SiGa-demo-application)

- Set java version to 17

- Build demo docker image using `./mvnw spring-boot:build-image`

- Navigate to current repo and run `docker-compose $(find docker-* | sed -e 's/^/-f /') up -d`

- Go to https://localhost:3001

**Training Module GUI setup in Service Module**

- Clone [Training Module](https://github.com/buerokratt/Training-Module)
- Training Module `.env` file includes REACT_APP_SERVICE_MODULE_GUI_BASE_URL
- In Training Module run: `docker-compose up -d`
  - Training module uses the same network as Service Module

### Database setup

- For setting up the users database initially, run
  `docker run --platform linux/amd64 --network=bykstack riaee/byk-users-db:liquibase20220615 --url=jdbc:postgresql://database:5432/users_db --username=byk --password=01234 --changelog-file=./master.yml update`
- Run migrations added in this repository by running the helper script `./migrate.sh`
- When creating new migrations, use the helper `./create-migration.sh name-of-migration` which will create a timestamped file in the correct directory and add the required headers

### DataMapper

[Changes based on this example](https://github.com/express-handlebars/express-handlebars/tree/master/examples/advanced)

DataMapper directory:

- create new directory: **lib**

**Update server.js**

```
import * as helpers from "./lib/helpers.js";
```

```
const hbs = create(); -> const hbs = create({ helpers });
```

```
app.post('/hbs/*', (req, res) => {
  res.render(req.params[0], req.body, function (_, response) {
    if (req.get('type') === 'csv') {
      res.json({ response });
    } else if (req.get('type') === 'json') {
      res.json(JSON.parse(response));
    }
  });
});
```

To enable handlebars templates to receive a body and return a json

- When Building a handlebars template make sure to add `layout:false` so that hbs response in the data-mapper will discard the html layout and only return the body data

### DMapper helper functions

- Add all the helper functions to **DSL/DMapper/lib/helpers.js**

### DMapper problems

- http://data_mapper:3005/js/generate/pdf
  - Docker stops - PDF is not returned
- **Possible solution- replace Data Mapper Dockerfile content with the following:**

```
FROM node:19-alpine

RUN apk add --no-cache chromium
ENV PUPPETEER_EXECUTABLE_PATH=/usr/bin/chromium-browser
ENV PUPPETEER_SKIP_CHROMIUM_DOWNLOAD=true

ENV NODE_ENV development
WORKDIR /workspace/app/

COPY js js
COPY views views
COPY lib lib
COPY package.json .
COPY server.js .

RUN npm i -g npm@latest
RUN npm install
ENTRYPOINT ["npm","start"]
```

Commit message:

Added some missing config lines (#145)
* Updated README.md with info about header module

* Added some missing config lines

* Updated missing userinfo

* Restored and updated missing layout component code.

README.md, after:

# Bürokratt's Service Module

Bürokratt's Service Module is a tool to help primarily product owners in collaboration with customer support agents/service managers to create, edit and otherwise manipulate Bürokratt's e-services via a graphical user interface. This includes setting up Ruuter- and Rasa-based user stories, making X-road / REST / database requests where and when appropriate and so forth.

Service Module focuses on the part of creation of any service where Bürokratt users can define service endpoints (i.e API or X-Road) whereas Training Module focuses on Rasa's side.

# Scope

This repo will primarily contain:

1. Architectural and other documentation;
2. Docker Compose file to set up and run Bürokratt's Service Module as a fully functional service;
3. Tests specific to Bürokratt's Service Module.

## Dev setup

- Make sure that env variable REACT_APP_LOCAL is set to true(default).

- Clone [Ruuter](https://github.com/buerokratt/Ruuter)

- Ruuter has an unresolved issue with allowing cross-origin credentials to be sent, for now fix this by adding: .allowCredentials(true); to line 24 in CORSConfiguration.java

- Navigate to Ruuter and build the image `docker build -t ruuter .`

- Clone [Resql](https://github.com/buerokratt/Resql)

- Navigate to Resql and build the image `docker build -t resql .`

- Clone [Data Mapper](https://github.com/buerokratt/DataMapper)

- Navigate to Data Mapper and build the image `docker build -t datamapper-node .`

- Clone [SiGA](https://github.com/open-eid/SiGa)

- Set java version to 11

- Navigate to SiGA & run `./mvnw clean install`

- Navigate to SiGA & run `./mvnw spring-boot:build-image -pl siga-webapp`

- Copy docker folder from SiGA directory & paste it into current repo directory.

- Clone [SiGA Demo](https://github.com/open-eid/SiGa-demo-application)

- Set java version to 17

- Build demo docker image using `./mvnw spring-boot:build-image`

- Navigate to current repo and run `docker-compose $(find docker-* | sed -e 's/^/-f /') up -d`

- Go to https://localhost:3001

**Training Module GUI setup in Service Module**

- Clone [Training Module](https://github.com/buerokratt/Training-Module)
- Training Module `.env` file includes REACT_APP_SERVICE_MODULE_GUI_BASE_URL
- In Training Module run: `docker-compose up -d`
  - Training module uses the same network as Service Module

### Use external header component.

The external header component and its version is defined in the package.json file located inside GUI folder.
That line must be updated when header version or location changes.
```  
 "@exirain/header": "file:exirain-header-0.0.21.tgz"
```
Current solution uses the module from packed file. This means that when building docker image, a line to the docker script needs to be added for copying the file.
``` 
COPY ./exirain-header-0.0.21.tgz .
```

### Database setup

- For setting up the users database initially, run
  `docker run --platform linux/amd64 --network=bykstack riaee/byk-users-db:liquibase20220615 --url=jdbc:postgresql://database:5432/users_db --username=byk --password=01234 --changelog-file=./master.yml update`
- Run migrations added in this repository by running the helper script `./migrate.sh`
- When creating new migrations, use the helper `./create-migration.sh name-of-migration` which will create a timestamped file in the correct directory and add the required headers

### DataMapper

[Changes based on this example](https://github.com/express-handlebars/express-handlebars/tree/master/examples/advanced)

DataMapper directory:

- create new directory: **lib**

**Update server.js**

```
import * as helpers from "./lib/helpers.js";
```

```
const hbs = create(); -> const hbs = create({ helpers });
```

```
app.post('/hbs/*', (req, res) => {
  res.render(req.params[0], req.body, function (_, response) {
    if (req.get('type') === 'csv') {
      res.json({ response });
    } else if (req.get('type') === 'json') {
      res.json(JSON.parse(response));
    }
  });
});
```

To enable handlebars templates to receive a body and return a json

- When Building a handlebars template make sure to add `layout:false` so that hbs response in the data-mapper will discard the html layout and only return the body data

### DMapper helper functions

- Add all the helper functions to **DSL/DMapper/lib/helpers.js**

### DMapper problems

- http://data_mapper:3005/js/generate/pdf
  - Docker stops - PDF is not returned
- **Possible solution- replace Data Mapper Dockerfile content with the following:**

```
FROM node:19-alpine

RUN apk add --no-cache chromium
ENV PUPPETEER_EXECUTABLE_PATH=/usr/bin/chromium-browser
ENV PUPPETEER_SKIP_CHROMIUM_DOWNLOAD=true

ENV NODE_ENV development
WORKDIR /workspace/app/

COPY js js
COPY views views
COPY lib lib
COPY package.json .
COPY server.js .

RUN npm i -g npm@latest
RUN npm install
ENTRYPOINT ["npm","start"]
```
